docs/developing/examples.md, before:

---
copyright:
years: 2023
lastupdated: "2023-02-25"
title: Open Horizon Examples index
description: ""

parent: Developing edge services
nav_order: 7
---

# Open Horizon examples index

Hello World examples | Description
------------------------|-------------
[web-helloworld-c ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/web-helloworld-c){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Hello World Open Horizon service container implemented in C |
[web-helloworld-cpp ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/web-helloworld-cpp){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Hello World Open Horizon service container implemented in C++ |
[web-helloworld-go ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/web-helloworld-go){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Hello World Open Horizon service container implemented in Go |
[web-helloworld-java ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/web-helloworld-java){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Hello World Open Horizon service container implemented in Java |
[web-helloworld-python ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/web-helloworld-python){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Hello World Open Horizon service container implemented in Python |
[web-helloworld-ruby ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/web-helloworld-ruby){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Hello World Open Horizon service container implemented in Ruby |
[service-node-red-hello-world ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-node-red-hello-world){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Hello World Open Horizon service container implemented in Node-RED|
[service-helloMMS-go ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-helloMMS-go){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Hello World Model Management service container implemented in Go |
||

Object Detection or camera services | Description
---------------------------------------|------------
[service-yolo-cpu ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-yolo-cpu){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Yolo object detection using the CPU |
[service-yolo-cuda ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-yolo-cuda){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Yolo object detection using Nvidia CUDA |
[service-yolo-vino ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-yolo-vino){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Yolo object detection using OpenVio Movidius VPU |
[service-node-red-object-detection ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-node-red-object-detection){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Open Horizon service container demonstrating Node-RED Object Detection |
[service-restcam ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-restcam){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Open Horizon service container that provides a basic REST camera service |
[service-nvcsi-restcam ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-nvcsi-restcam){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Open Horizon service container which provides a restcam for NVIDIA Jetson MIPI CSI cameras |
||

Open Horizon Services | Description
-------------------------|------------
[Achatina ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/Achatina){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | |
[example-achatina-monitor ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/example-achatina-monitor){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | |
[service-detectron ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-detectron2){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | |
[service-edgex-foundry ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-edgex-foundry){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | |
[service-fledge ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-fledge){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Containerized version of the fledge open-source project designed to be deployed and managed by Open Horizon |
[service-homeassistant](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-homeassistant){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Open Horizon configuration to deploy a vanilla instance of the open-source Home Assistant software |
[service-liquid-prep ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-liquid-prep){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | |
[service-minecraft ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-minecraft){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Service definition and policy files to deploy and lightly customize a Minecraft server on an edge node
[service-mqtt ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/web-helloworld-cpp){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | multi-platform Open Horizon service-based message queue broker. It provides an MQTT broker and publisher for inter-container communication |
[service-qiskit ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-qiskit){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | |
[service-qr-code-generator ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-qr-code-generator){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | |
[service-sbom-policy-generator ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-sbom-policy-generator){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | |
[service-sms-me ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-sms-me){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Open Horizon service that sends the LAN IP address via SMS |
[service-speak-ip ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-speak-ip){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Open Horizon service that speaks the LAN IP address |
[SmartAg-foundation ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/SmartAg-foundation){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | |
||

Lots more in the Open Horizon Examples repo | Description
--------------------------------------------|------------
[evtstreams ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/examples/tree/master/edge/evtstreams/cpu2evtstreams){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Horizon CPU to IBM Event Streams Service |
[sdr2evtstreams ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/examples/tree/master/edge/evtstreams/sdr2evtstreams){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Horizon SDR to IBM Event Streams Service |
[Watson-Speech-to-Text ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/examples/tree/master/edge/evtstreams/watson_speech2text){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Horizon Watson Speech to Text to IBM Event Streams Service for Raspberry Pi |
[see more ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/examples/tree/master/edge{:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink}) | Lots more in the [Examples repo ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/examples/tree/master/edge){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink}
||

Commit message:

Issue 628: Update front matter in documentation files
Signed-off-by: Joe Pearson <joe.pearson@us.ibm.com>

docs/developing/examples.md, after:

---
copyright: Contributors to the Open Horizon project
years: 2025
title: Open Horizon Examples index
description: Documentation for Open Horizon examples index
lastupdated: 2025-05-03
nav_order: 7
parent: Developing edge services
---

# Open Horizon examples index

Hello World examples | Description
------------------------|-------------
[web-helloworld-c ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/web-helloworld-c){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Hello World Open Horizon service container implemented in C |
[web-helloworld-cpp ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/web-helloworld-cpp){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Hello World Open Horizon service container implemented in C++ |
[web-helloworld-go ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/web-helloworld-go){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Hello World Open Horizon service container implemented in Go |
[web-helloworld-java ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/web-helloworld-java){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Hello World Open Horizon service container implemented in Java |
[web-helloworld-python ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/web-helloworld-python){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Hello World Open Horizon service container implemented in Python |
[web-helloworld-ruby ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/web-helloworld-ruby){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Hello World Open Horizon service container implemented in Ruby |
[service-node-red-hello-world ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-node-red-hello-world){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Hello World Open Horizon service container implemented in Node-RED|
[service-helloMMS-go ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-helloMMS-go){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Hello World Model Management service container implemented in Go |
||

Object Detection or camera services | Description
---------------------------------------|------------
[service-yolo-cpu ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-yolo-cpu){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Yolo object detection using the CPU |
[service-yolo-cuda ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-yolo-cuda){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Yolo object detection using Nvidia CUDA |
[service-yolo-vino ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-yolo-vino){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Yolo object detection using OpenVio Movidius VPU |
[service-node-red-object-detection ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-node-red-object-detection){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Open Horizon service container demonstrating Node-RED Object Detection |
[service-restcam ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-restcam){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Open Horizon service container that provides a basic REST camera service |
[service-nvcsi-restcam ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-nvcsi-restcam){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Open Horizon service container which provides a restcam for NVIDIA Jetson MIPI CSI cameras |
||

Open Horizon Services | Description
-------------------------|------------
[Achatina ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/Achatina){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | |
[example-achatina-monitor ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/example-achatina-monitor){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | |
[service-detectron ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-detectron2){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | |
[service-edgex-foundry ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-edgex-foundry){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | |
[service-fledge ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-fledge){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Containerized version of the fledge open-source project designed to be deployed and managed by Open Horizon |
[service-homeassistant](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-homeassistant){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Open Horizon configuration to deploy a vanilla instance of the open-source Home Assistant software |
[service-liquid-prep ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-liquid-prep){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | |
[service-minecraft ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-minecraft){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Service definition and policy files to deploy and lightly customize a Minecraft server on an edge node
[service-mqtt ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/web-helloworld-cpp){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | multi-platform Open Horizon service-based message queue broker. It provides an MQTT broker and publisher for inter-container communication |
[service-qiskit ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-qiskit){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | |
[service-qr-code-generator ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-qr-code-generator){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | |
[service-sbom-policy-generator ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-sbom-policy-generator){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | |
[service-sms-me ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-sms-me){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Open Horizon service that sends the LAN IP address via SMS |
[service-speak-ip ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/service-speak-ip){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Open Horizon service that speaks the LAN IP address |
[SmartAg-foundation ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/SmartAg-foundation){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | |
||

Lots more in the Open Horizon Examples repo | Description
--------------------------------------------|------------
[evtstreams ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/examples/tree/master/edge/evtstreams/cpu2evtstreams){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Horizon CPU to IBM Event Streams Service |
[sdr2evtstreams ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/examples/tree/master/edge/evtstreams/sdr2evtstreams){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Horizon SDR to IBM Event Streams Service |
[Watson-Speech-to-Text ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/examples/tree/master/edge/evtstreams/watson_speech2text){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} | Horizon Watson Speech to Text to IBM Event Streams Service for Raspberry Pi |
[see more ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/examples/tree/master/edge{:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink}) | Lots more in the [Examples repo ](https://github.com/open-horizon-services/examples/tree/master/edge){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink}
||
