docs/installing/advanced_man_install.md, before:

---

copyright:
years: 2021 - 2024
lastupdated: "2024-07-29"
title: "Manual agent install"

parent: Edge devices info
grand_parent: Edge devices
nav_order: 4
---

{:new_window: target="blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:child: .link .ulchildlink}
{:childlinks: .ullinks}

# Advanced manual agent installation and registration
{: #advanced_man_install}

This content describes each manual step to install the {{site.data.keyword.edge_notm}} agent on an edge device and register it. For a more automated method, see [Automated agent installation and registration](automated_install.md).
{:shortdesc}

## Installing the agent
{: #agent_install}

**Note**: For more information about command syntax, see [Conventions used in this document](../getting_started/document_conventions.md).

1. Obtain the `agentInstallFiles-<edge-device-type>.tar.gz` file before you continue and the API Key that is created along with this file before continuing this process.

    As a post-configuration step for [Installing the management hub](../hub/online_installation.md), a compressed file was created for you. This file that contains the necessary files to install the {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} agent on your edge device and register it with the helloworld example.

2. Copy this file to the edge device with a USB stick, the secure copy command, or another method.

3. Expand the tar file:

   ```bash
   tar -zxvf agentInstallFiles-<edge-device-type>.tar.gz
   ```
   {: codeblock}

4. Use whichever following section that applies to your type of edge device.

**Note**: If your Linux is not one of the supported distributions and it supports containers, see [Container Agent Installation](../anax/docs/agent_container_manual_deploy.md) for instructions about how to use the containerized agent.

### Installing the agent on Linux (ARM 32-bit, ARM 64-bit, ppc64le, or x86_64) edge devices or virtual machines
{: #agent_install_linux}

Follow these steps:

1. Log in, and if you are logged in as a non-root user, switch to a user with root privileges:

   ```bash
   sudo -s
   ```
   {: codeblock}

2. Query the OCI container runtime version to check whether it is recent enough:

   - Docker

     ```bash
     docker --version
     ```
     {: codeblock}

     If docker is not installed, or the version is older than `18.06.01`, install the most recent version of Docker.

     ```bash
     curl -fsSL get.docker.com | sh
     docker --version
     ```
     {: codeblock}

   - Podman ({{site.data.keyword.rhel}} or {{site.data.keyword.fedora}})

     ```bash
     podman --version
     ```
     {: codeblock}

     If podman is not installed, or the version is older than `4.0`, install the most recent version of Podman.

     ```bash
     dnf install podman netavark
     podman --version
     ```
     {: codeblock}

     Switch the network stack from CNI to Netavark. The {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} agent requires the network backend to be configured to use netavark instead of cni so that the agent can set up networking scenarios such as dependent services between containers.  Follow the steps in the Red Hat documentation [switching the network stack ](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html-single/building_running_and_managing_containers/index#proc_switching-the-network-stack-from-cni-to-netavark_assembly_setting-container-network-modes){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} chapter.

3. Install the Horizon packages that you copied to this edge device:

   - For Debian / Ubuntu distributions:

     ```bash
     apt update && apt install ./*horizon*.deb
     ```
     {: codeblock}

   - For {{site.data.keyword.rhel}} or {{site.data.keyword.fedora}} distributions:

     ```bash
     yum install ./*horizon*.rpm
     ```
     {: codeblock}

4. Set your specific information as environment variables:

   ```bash
   eval export $(cat agent-install.cfg)
   ```
   {: codeblock}

5. Point your edge device {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} agent to your {{site.data.keyword.edge_notm}} cluster by populating `/etc/default/horizon` with the correct information:

   ```bash
   sed -i.bak -e "s|^HZN_EXCHANGE_URL=[^ ]*|HZN_EXCHANGE_URL=${HZN_EXCHANGE_URL}|g" -e "s|^HZN_FSS_CSSURL=[^ ]*|HZN_FSS_CSSURL=${HZN_FSS_CSSURL}|g" /etc/default/horizon
   ```
   {: codeblock}

6. Have the horizon agent trust `agent-install.crt`:

   ```bash
   if grep -qE '^HZN_MGMT_HUB_CERT_PATH=' /etc/default/horizon; then sed -i.bak -e "s|^HZN_MGMT_HUB_CERT_PATH=[^ ]*|HZN_MGMT_HUB_CERT_PATH=${PWD}/agent-install.crt|" /etc/default/horizon; else echo "HZN_MGMT_HUB_CERT_PATH=${PWD}/agent-install.crt" >> /etc/default/horizon; fi
   ```
   {: codeblock}

7. Restart the agent to pick up the changes to `/etc/default/horizon`:

   ```bash
   systemctl restart horizon.service
   ```
   {: codeblock}

8. Verify that the agent is running and correctly configured:

   ```bash
   hzn version
   hzn exchange version
   hzn node list
   ```
   {: codeblock}

   The output should look similar to this example (version numbers and URLs might be different):

   ```bash
   $ hzn version
   Horizon CLI version: 2.23.29
   Horizon Agent version: 2.23.29

   $ hzn exchange version
   1.116.0

   $ hzn node list
   {
         "id": "",
         "organization": null,
         "pattern": null,
         "name": null,
         "token_last_valid_time": "",
         "token_valid": null,
         "ha": null,
         "configstate": {
            "state": "unconfigured",
            "last_update_time": ""
         },
         "configuration": {
            "exchange_api": "https://9.30.210.34:8443/ec-exchange/v1/",
            "exchange_version": "1.116.0",
            "required_minimum_exchange_version": "1.116.0",
            "preferred_exchange_version": "1.116.0",
            "mms_api": "https://9.30.210.34:8443/ec-css",
            "architecture": "amd64",
            "horizon_version": "2.23.29"
         },
         "connectivity": {
            "firmware.bluehorizon.network": true,
            "images.bluehorizon.network": true
         }
      }
   ```
   {: codeblock}

9. If you previously switched to the privileged shell, exit it now. You do not need root access for the next step of registering your device.

   ```bash
   exit
   ```
   {: codeblock}

10. Continue on to [Registering the agent](#agent_reg).

### Installing the agent on a {{site.data.keyword.macOS_notm}} ({{site.data.keyword.intel}} or Apple Silicon M1 / M2) edge device
{: #mac-os-x}

1. Import the `horizon-cli` package certificate into your {{site.data.keyword.macOS_notm}} keychain:

   ```bash
   sudo security add-trusted-cert -d -r trustRoot -k /Library/Keychains/System.keychain horizon-cli.crt
   ```
   {: codeblock}

      **Note**: You need to complete this step only one time on each {{site.data.keyword.macOS_notm}} machine. With this trusted certificate imported, you can install any future version of the {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} software.

2. Install the {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} CLI package:

   ```bash
   sudo installer -pkg horizon-cli-*.pkg -target /
   ```
   {: codeblock}

3. Enable subcommand name completion for the `hzn` command, by adding the following to `~/.bashrc`:

   ```bash
   source /usr/local/share/horizon/hzn_bash_autocomplete.sh
   ```
   {: codeblock}

4. When you are installing a **new device**, this step is not necessary. But if you installed and started the {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} container on this machine previously, stop it now by running:

   ```bash
   horizon-container stop
   ```
   {: codeblock}

5. Set your specific information as environment variables:

   ```bash
   eval export $(cat agent-install.cfg)
   ```
   {: codeblock}

6. Point your edge device {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} agent to your {{site.data.keyword.edge_notm}} cluster by populating `/etc/default/horizon` with the correct information:

   ```bash
   sudo mkdir -p /etc/default

   sudo sh -c "cat << EndOfContent > /etc/default/horizon
   HZN_EXCHANGE_URL=$HZN_EXCHANGE_URL
   HZN_FSS_CSSURL=$HZN_FSS_CSSURL
   HZN_MGMT_HUB_CERT_PATH=${PWD}/agent-install.crt
   HZN_DEVICE_ID=$(hostname)
   EndOfContent"
   ```
   {: codeblock}

7. Start the {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} agent:

   ```bash
   horizon-container start
   ```
   {: codeblock}

8. Verify that the agent is running and correctly configured:

   ```bash
   hzn version
   hzn exchange version
   hzn node list
   ```
   {: codeblock}

   The output should look similar to this (version numbers and URLs might be different):

   ```bash
   $ hzn version
   Horizon CLI version: 2.23.29
   Horizon Agent version: 2.23.29
   $ hzn exchange version
   1.116.0
   $ hzn node list
      {
         "id": "",
         "organization": null,
         "pattern": null,
         "name": null,
         "token_last_valid_time": "",
         "token_valid": null,
         "ha": null,
         "configstate": {
            "state": "unconfigured",
            "last_update_time": ""
         },
         "configuration": {
            "exchange_api": "https://9.30.210.34:8443/ec-exchange/v1/",
            "exchange_version": "1.116.0",
            "required_minimum_exchange_version": "1.116.0",
            "preferred_exchange_version": "1.116.0",
            "mms_api": "https://9.30.210.34:8443/ec-css",
            "architecture": "amd64",
            "horizon_version": "2.23.29"
         },
         "connectivity": {
            "firmware.bluehorizon.network": true,
            "images.bluehorizon.network": true
         }
      }
   ```
   {: codeblock}

9. Continue on to [Registering the agent](#agent_reg).

## Registering the agent
{: #agent_reg}

1. Set your specific information as **environment variables**:

   ```bash
   eval export $(cat agent-install.cfg)

   # or 

   export HZN_ORG_ID=<your-exchange-organization>
   export HZN_EXCHANGE_USER_AUTH=<authentication string>
   export HZN_EXCHANGE_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:3090/v1
   export HZN_FSS_CSSURL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:9443/
   export HZN_AGBOT_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:3111
   export HZN_FDO_SVC_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:9008/api
   ```
   {: codeblock}

2. View the list of sample edge service deployment patterns:

   ```bash
   hzn exchange pattern list IBM/
   ```
   {: codeblock}

3. The helloworld edge service is the most basic example, which makes it a good place to begin. **Register** your edge device with {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} to run the **helloworld deployment pattern**:

   ```bash
   hzn register -p IBM/pattern-ibm.helloworld
   ```
   {: codeblock}

   **Note**: The node ID shown in the output in the line that starts with **Using node ID**.

4. The edge device will make an agreement with one of the {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} agreement bots (this process typically takes about 15 seconds). **Repeatedly query the agreements** of this device until the `agreement_finalized_time` and `agreement_execution_start_time` fields are complete:

   ```bash
   hzn agreement list
   ```
   {: codeblock}

5. **After the agreement is made**, list the docker container edge service that started as a result:

   ```bash
   sudo docker ps
   ```
   {: codeblock}

6. View the helloworld edge service **output**:

   ```bash
   sudo hzn service log -f ibm.helloworld
   ```
   {: codeblock}

## What to do next
{: #what_next}

Navigate to [CPU usage to IBM Event Streams](../using_edge_services/cpu_load_example.md) to continue with other edge service examples.

Commit message:

Issue 628: Update front matter in documentation files
Signed-off-by: Joe Pearson <joe.pearson@us.ibm.com>

docs/installing/advanced_man_install.md, after:

---
copyright: Contributors to the Open Horizon project
years: 2021 - 2025
title: Manual agent install
description: Documentation for Advanced manual agent installation and registration
lastupdated: 2025-05-03
nav_order: 4
parent: Edge devices info
grand_parent: Edge devices
---

{:new_window: target="blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:child: .link .ulchildlink}
{:childlinks: .ullinks}

# Advanced manual agent installation and registration
{: #advanced_man_install}

This content describes each manual step to install the {{site.data.keyword.edge_notm}} agent on an edge device and register it. For a more automated method, see [Automated agent installation and registration](automated_install.md).
{:shortdesc}

## Installing the agent
{: #agent_install}

**Note**: For more information about command syntax, see [Conventions used in this document](../getting_started/document_conventions.md).

1. Obtain the `agentInstallFiles-<edge-device-type>.tar.gz` file before you continue and the API Key that is created along with this file before continuing this process.

    As a post-configuration step for [Installing the management hub](../hub/online_installation.md), a compressed file was created for you. This file that contains the necessary files to install the {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} agent on your edge device and register it with the helloworld example.

2. Copy this file to the edge device with a USB stick, the secure copy command, or another method.

3. Expand the tar file:

   ```bash
   tar -zxvf agentInstallFiles-<edge-device-type>.tar.gz
   ```
   {: codeblock}

4. Use whichever following section that applies to your type of edge device.

**Note**: If your Linux is not one of the supported distributions and it supports containers, see [Container Agent Installation](../anax/docs/agent_container_manual_deploy.md) for instructions about how to use the containerized agent.

### Installing the agent on Linux (ARM 32-bit, ARM 64-bit, ppc64le, or x86_64) edge devices or virtual machines
{: #agent_install_linux}

Follow these steps:

1. Log in, and if you are logged in as a non-root user, switch to a user with root privileges:

   ```bash
   sudo -s
   ```
   {: codeblock}

2. Query the OCI container runtime version to check whether it is recent enough:

   - Docker

     ```bash
     docker --version
     ```
     {: codeblock}

     If docker is not installed, or the version is older than `18.06.01`, install the most recent version of Docker.

     ```bash
     curl -fsSL get.docker.com | sh
     docker --version
     ```
     {: codeblock}

   - Podman ({{site.data.keyword.rhel}} or {{site.data.keyword.fedora}})

     ```bash
     podman --version
     ```
     {: codeblock}

     If podman is not installed, or the version is older than `4.0`, install the most recent version of Podman.

     ```bash
     dnf install podman netavark
     podman --version
     ```
     {: codeblock}

     Switch the network stack from CNI to Netavark. The {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} agent requires the network backend to be configured to use netavark instead of cni so that the agent can set up networking scenarios such as dependent services between containers.  Follow the steps in the Red Hat documentation [switching the network stack ](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html-single/building_running_and_managing_containers/index#proc_switching-the-network-stack-from-cni-to-netavark_assembly_setting-container-network-modes){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} chapter.

3. Install the Horizon packages that you copied to this edge device:

   - For Debian / Ubuntu distributions:

     ```bash
     apt update && apt install ./*horizon*.deb
     ```
     {: codeblock}

   - For {{site.data.keyword.rhel}} or {{site.data.keyword.fedora}} distributions:

     ```bash
     yum install ./*horizon*.rpm
     ```
     {: codeblock}

4. Set your specific information as environment variables:

   ```bash
   eval export $(cat agent-install.cfg)
   ```
   {: codeblock}

5. Point your edge device {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} agent to your {{site.data.keyword.edge_notm}} cluster by populating `/etc/default/horizon` with the correct information:

   ```bash
   sed -i.bak -e "s|^HZN_EXCHANGE_URL=[^ ]*|HZN_EXCHANGE_URL=${HZN_EXCHANGE_URL}|g" -e "s|^HZN_FSS_CSSURL=[^ ]*|HZN_FSS_CSSURL=${HZN_FSS_CSSURL}|g" /etc/default/horizon
   ```
   {: codeblock}

6. Have the horizon agent trust `agent-install.crt`:

   ```bash
   if grep -qE '^HZN_MGMT_HUB_CERT_PATH=' /etc/default/horizon; then sed -i.bak -e "s|^HZN_MGMT_HUB_CERT_PATH=[^ ]*|HZN_MGMT_HUB_CERT_PATH=${PWD}/agent-install.crt|" /etc/default/horizon; else echo "HZN_MGMT_HUB_CERT_PATH=${PWD}/agent-install.crt" >> /etc/default/horizon; fi
   ```
   {: codeblock}

7. Restart the agent to pick up the changes to `/etc/default/horizon`:

   ```bash
   systemctl restart horizon.service
   ```
   {: codeblock}

8. Verify that the agent is running and correctly configured:

   ```bash
   hzn version
   hzn exchange version
   hzn node list
   ```
   {: codeblock}

   The output should look similar to this example (version numbers and URLs might be different):

   ```bash
   $ hzn version
   Horizon CLI version: 2.23.29
   Horizon Agent version: 2.23.29

   $ hzn exchange version
   1.116.0

   $ hzn node list
   {
         "id": "",
         "organization": null,
         "pattern": null,
         "name": null,
         "token_last_valid_time": "",
         "token_valid": null,
         "ha": null,
         "configstate": {
            "state": "unconfigured",
            "last_update_time": ""
         },
         "configuration": {
            "exchange_api": "https://9.30.210.34:8443/ec-exchange/v1/",
            "exchange_version": "1.116.0",
            "required_minimum_exchange_version": "1.116.0",
            "preferred_exchange_version": "1.116.0",
            "mms_api": "https://9.30.210.34:8443/ec-css",
            "architecture": "amd64",
            "horizon_version": "2.23.29"
         },
         "connectivity": {
            "firmware.bluehorizon.network": true,
            "images.bluehorizon.network": true
         }
      }
   ```
   {: codeblock}

9. If you previously switched to the privileged shell, exit it now. You do not need root access for the next step of registering your device.

   ```bash
   exit
   ```
   {: codeblock}

10. Continue on to [Registering the agent](#agent_reg).

### Installing the agent on a {{site.data.keyword.macOS_notm}} ({{site.data.keyword.intel}} or Apple Silicon M1 / M2) edge device
{: #mac-os-x}

1. Import the `horizon-cli` package certificate into your {{site.data.keyword.macOS_notm}} keychain:

   ```bash
   sudo security add-trusted-cert -d -r trustRoot -k /Library/Keychains/System.keychain horizon-cli.crt
   ```
   {: codeblock}

      **Note**: You need to complete this step only one time on each {{site.data.keyword.macOS_notm}} machine. With this trusted certificate imported, you can install any future version of the {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} software.

2. Install the {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} CLI package:

   ```bash
   sudo installer -pkg horizon-cli-*.pkg -target /
   ```
   {: codeblock}

3. Enable subcommand name completion for the `hzn` command, by adding the following to `~/.bashrc`:

   ```bash
   source /usr/local/share/horizon/hzn_bash_autocomplete.sh
   ```
   {: codeblock}

4. When you are installing a **new device**, this step is not necessary. But if you installed and started the {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} container on this machine previously, stop it now by running:

   ```bash
   horizon-container stop
   ```
   {: codeblock}

5. Set your specific information as environment variables:

   ```bash
   eval export $(cat agent-install.cfg)
   ```
   {: codeblock}

6. Point your edge device {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} agent to your {{site.data.keyword.edge_notm}} cluster by populating `/etc/default/horizon` with the correct information:

   ```bash
   sudo mkdir -p /etc/default

   sudo sh -c "cat << EndOfContent > /etc/default/horizon
   HZN_EXCHANGE_URL=$HZN_EXCHANGE_URL
   HZN_FSS_CSSURL=$HZN_FSS_CSSURL
   HZN_MGMT_HUB_CERT_PATH=${PWD}/agent-install.crt
   HZN_DEVICE_ID=$(hostname)
   EndOfContent"
   ```
   {: codeblock}

7. Start the {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} agent:

   ```bash
   horizon-container start
   ```
   {: codeblock}

8. Verify that the agent is running and correctly configured:

   ```bash
   hzn version
   hzn exchange version
   hzn node list
   ```
   {: codeblock}

   The output should look similar to this (version numbers and URLs might be different):

   ```bash
   $ hzn version
   Horizon CLI version: 2.23.29
   Horizon Agent version: 2.23.29
   $ hzn exchange version
   1.116.0
   $ hzn node list
      {
         "id": "",
         "organization": null,
         "pattern": null,
         "name": null,
         "token_last_valid_time": "",
         "token_valid": null,
         "ha": null,
         "configstate": {
            "state": "unconfigured",
            "last_update_time": ""
         },
         "configuration": {
            "exchange_api": "https://9.30.210.34:8443/ec-exchange/v1/",
            "exchange_version": "1.116.0",
            "required_minimum_exchange_version": "1.116.0",
            "preferred_exchange_version": "1.116.0",
            "mms_api": "https://9.30.210.34:8443/ec-css",
            "architecture": "amd64",
            "horizon_version": "2.23.29"
         },
         "connectivity": {
            "firmware.bluehorizon.network": true,
            "images.bluehorizon.network": true
         }
      }
   ```
   {: codeblock}

9. Continue on to [Registering the agent](#agent_reg).

## Registering the agent
{: #agent_reg}

1. Set your specific information as **environment variables**:

   ```bash
   eval export $(cat agent-install.cfg)

   # or 

   export HZN_ORG_ID=<your-exchange-organization>
   export HZN_EXCHANGE_USER_AUTH=<authentication string>
   export HZN_EXCHANGE_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:3090/v1
   export HZN_FSS_CSSURL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:9443/
   export HZN_AGBOT_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:3111
   export HZN_FDO_SVC_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:9008/api
   ```
   {: codeblock}

2. View the list of sample edge service deployment patterns:

   ```bash
   hzn exchange pattern list IBM/
   ```
   {: codeblock}

3. The helloworld edge service is the most basic example, which makes it a good place to begin. **Register** your edge device with {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} to run the **helloworld deployment pattern**:

   ```bash
   hzn register -p IBM/pattern-ibm.helloworld
   ```
   {: codeblock}

   **Note**: The node ID shown in the output in the line that starts with **Using node ID**.

4. The edge device will make an agreement with one of the {{site.data.keyword.horizon}} agreement bots (this process typically takes about 15 seconds). **Repeatedly query the agreements** of this device until the `agreement_finalized_time` and `agreement_execution_start_time` fields are complete:

   ```bash
   hzn agreement list
   ```
   {: codeblock}

5. **After the agreement is made**, list the docker container edge service that started as a result:

   ```bash
   sudo docker ps
   ```
   {: codeblock}

6. View the helloworld edge service **output**:

   ```bash
   sudo hzn service log -f ibm.helloworld
   ```
   {: codeblock}

## What to do next
{: #what_next}

Navigate to [CPU usage to IBM Event Streams](../using_edge_services/cpu_load_example.md) to continue with other edge service examples.
