docs/installing/fdo.md, before:

---
copyright: Contributors to the Open Horizon project
years: 2020 - 2025
title: FDO agent install
description: Documentation for FDO agent installation and registration
lastupdated: 2025-09-02
nav_order: 6
parent: Edge devices info
grand_parent: Edge devices
---

{:new_window: target="blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:child: .link .ulchildlink}
{:childlinks: .ullinks}

# FDO agent installation and registration
{: #fdo}

[FIDO Device Onboard (FDO) ](https://github.com/open-horizon/FDO-support/blob/main/README.md){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink}, created by Intel, makes it easy to add edge devices built with Intel FDO (FIDO Device Onboard) to an {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} instance by simply importing their associated ownership vouchers and then powering on the devices.

## FDO overview
{: #fdo-overview}

The software in the FDO git repository provides integration between FDO and {{site.data.keyword.ieam}}, making it easy to use FDO-enabled edge devices with Horizon. The Horizon FDO support consists of these components:

* A docker image of of the FDO Owner service (those that run on the {{site.data.keyword.edge_notm}} management hub).
* An `hzn fdo voucher` sub-command to import one or more ownership vouchers into Owner service. (An ownership voucher is a file that the device manufacturer gives to the purchaser (owner) along with the physical device.)
* A sample script called `start-mfg.sh` to start the development manufacturing service so that the ownership voucher can be extended to the user to enable them to run through the FDO-enabling steps on a Virtual Machine (VM) device that a device manufacturer would run on a physical device. This allows you to try out the FDO process with your Horizon instance before purchasing FDO-enabled devices.
* A REST API that authenticates users through the Horizon Exchange and enables importing and querying ownership vouchers.

**Note**: FDO only supports edge devices, not edge clusters.

## Before you begin
{: #before_begin}

FDO requires that the agent files are stored in the {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} Cloud Sync Service (CSS). If this has not been done, ask your administrator to run one of the following commands as described in [Gather edge node files](../hub/gather_files.md):

  `edgeNodeFiles.sh ALL -c ...`

## Trying FDO
{: #trying-fdo}

Before you purchase FDO-enabled edge devices, you can test FDO support in {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} with a VM that simulates an FDO-enabled device:

1. You need an API key. See [Creating your API key](../hub/prepare_for_edge_nodes.md) for instructions to create an API key, if you do not already have one.

2. Contact your {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} administrator to get the values of these environment variables. (You need them in the next step.)

   ```bash
   export HZN_ORG_ID=<your-exchange-organization>
   export HZN_EXCHANGE_USER_AUTH=<authentication string>
   export HZN_EXCHANGE_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:3090/v1
   export HZN_FSS_CSSURL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:9443/
   export HZN_AGBOT_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:3111
   export HZN_FDO_SVC_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:9008/api
   export HZN_MGMT_HUB_CERT_PATH=<path-to-mgmt-hub-self-signed-cert>
   export CURL_CA_BUNDLE=$HZN_MGMT_HUB_CERT_PATH
   ```
   {: codeblock}

3. Follow the steps in the [FIDO Device Onboard (FDO) ](https://github.com/open-horizon/FDO-support/blob/main/README.md){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} to observe FDO automatically install the {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} agent on a device and registers it with your {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} management hub.

## Adding FDO-enabled devices to your {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} domain
{: #using-fdo}

If you have purchased FDO-enabled devices and want to incorporate them into your {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} domain:

1. If you did not create FDO owner key pairs when trying out FDO in the previous section, perform these steps:

   1. You need an API key. See [Prepare for setting up edge nodes](../hub/prepare_for_edge_nodes.md) for instructions to create an API key, if you do not already have one.

   2. Contact your {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} administrator to get the values of these environment variables. (You need them in the next step.)

      ```bash
      export HZN_ORG_ID=<your-exchange-organization>
      export HZN_EXCHANGE_USER_AUTH=<authentication string>
      export HZN_EXCHANGE_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:3090/v1
      export HZN_FSS_CSSURL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:9443/
      export HZN_AGBOT_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:3111
      export HZN_FDO_SVC_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:9008/api
      export HZN_MGMT_HUB_CERT_PATH=<path-to-mgmt-hub-self-signed-cert>
      export CURL_CA_BUNDLE=$HZN_MGMT_HUB_CERT_PATH
      ```
      {: codeblock}

   3. To download the public key for FDO, use the device alias you received from the manufacturer device initialization. Then, use that device alias to download the corresponding public key. For more information, see [Generate Owner Key Pairs ](https://github.com/open-horizon/FDO-support/blob/main/README.md){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink}.

2. Using the `hzn` CLI, import the voucher using the following pattern.
  ```bash
  hzn fdo voucher import [<flags>] <voucher-file>
  ```
  {: codeblock}

4. Use the ownership vouchers you received as `<voucher-file>` when you purchased the devices.  The files must have a file type extension of txt, tar, tar.gz, tgz, or zip. If it is any of the tar/zip formats, all .txt files within it will be imported (other files/dirs will be silently ignored).

5. Connect the devices to the network and power them on.

6. Using the `hzn` CLI, monitor the progress of the devices as they come online using `hzn fdo voucher list` to confirm the voucher is listed, and `hzn fdo key list` to see the registered devices.

Commit message:

Point to anax authentication information
Signed-off-by: Doug Larson <larsond@us.ibm.com>

docs/installing/fdo.md, after:

---
copyright: Contributors to the Open Horizon project
years: 2020 - 2025
title: FDO agent install
description: Documentation for FDO agent installation and registration
lastupdated: 2025-09-02
nav_order: 6
parent: Edge devices info
grand_parent: Edge devices
---

{:new_window: target="blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:child: .link .ulchildlink}
{:childlinks: .ullinks}

# FDO agent installation and registration
{: #fdo}

[FIDO Device Onboard (FDO) ](https://github.com/open-horizon/FDO-support/blob/main/README.md){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink}, created by Intel, makes it easy to add edge devices built with Intel FDO (FIDO Device Onboard) to an {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} instance by simply importing their associated ownership vouchers and then powering on the devices.

## FDO overview
{: #fdo-overview}

The software in the FDO git repository provides integration between FDO and {{site.data.keyword.ieam}}, making it easy to use FDO-enabled edge devices with Horizon. The Horizon FDO support consists of these components:

* A docker image of of the FDO Owner service (those that run on the {{site.data.keyword.edge_notm}} management hub).
* An `hzn fdo voucher` sub-command to import one or more ownership vouchers into Owner service. (An ownership voucher is a file that the device manufacturer gives to the purchaser (owner) along with the physical device.)
* A sample script called `start-mfg.sh` to start the development manufacturing service so that the ownership voucher can be extended to the user to enable them to run through the FDO-enabling steps on a Virtual Machine (VM) device that a device manufacturer would run on a physical device. This allows you to try out the FDO process with your Horizon instance before purchasing FDO-enabled devices.
* A REST API that authenticates users through the Horizon Exchange and enables importing and querying ownership vouchers.

**Note**: FDO only supports edge devices, not edge clusters.

## Before you begin
{: #before_begin}

FDO requires that the agent files are stored in the {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} Cloud Sync Service (CSS). If this has not been done, ask your administrator to run one of the following commands as described in [Gather edge node files](../hub/gather_files.md):

  `edgeNodeFiles.sh ALL -c ...`

## Trying FDO
{: #trying-fdo}

Before you purchase FDO-enabled edge devices, you can test FDO support in {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} with a VM that simulates an FDO-enabled device:

1. If you do not already have your authorization information, that should be obtained first. See [Authentication overview](../anax/docs/authentication_overview.md).

2. Contact your {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} administrator to get the values of these environment variables. (You need them in the next step.)

   ```bash
   export HZN_ORG_ID=<your-exchange-organization>
   export HZN_EXCHANGE_USER_AUTH=<authentication string>
   export HZN_EXCHANGE_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:3090/v1
   export HZN_FSS_CSSURL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:9443/
   export HZN_AGBOT_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:3111
   export HZN_FDO_SVC_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:9008/api
   export HZN_MGMT_HUB_CERT_PATH=<path-to-mgmt-hub-self-signed-cert>
   export CURL_CA_BUNDLE=$HZN_MGMT_HUB_CERT_PATH
   ```
   {: codeblock}

3. Follow the steps in the [FIDO Device Onboard (FDO) ](https://github.com/open-horizon/FDO-support/blob/main/README.md){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} to observe FDO automatically install the {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} agent on a device and registers it with your {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} management hub.

## Adding FDO-enabled devices to your {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} domain
{: #using-fdo}

If you have purchased FDO-enabled devices and want to incorporate them into your {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} domain:

1. If you did not create FDO owner key pairs when trying out FDO in the previous section, perform these steps:

   1. If you do not already have your authorization information, that should be obtained first. See [Authentication overview](../anax/docs/authentication_overview.md).
   2. Contact your {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} administrator to get the values of these environment variables. (You need them in the next step.)

      ```bash
      export HZN_ORG_ID=<your-exchange-organization>
      export HZN_EXCHANGE_USER_AUTH=<authentication string>
      export HZN_EXCHANGE_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:3090/v1
      export HZN_FSS_CSSURL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:9443/
      export HZN_AGBOT_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:3111
      export HZN_FDO_SVC_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:9008/api
      export HZN_MGMT_HUB_CERT_PATH=<path-to-mgmt-hub-self-signed-cert>
      export CURL_CA_BUNDLE=$HZN_MGMT_HUB_CERT_PATH
      ```
      {: codeblock}

   3. To download the public key for FDO, use the device alias you received from the manufacturer device initialization. Then, use that device alias to download the corresponding public key. For more information, see [Generate Owner Key Pairs ](https://github.com/open-horizon/FDO-support/blob/main/README.md){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink}.

2. Using the `hzn` CLI, import the voucher using the following pattern.
  ```bash
  hzn fdo voucher import [<flags>] <voucher-file>
  ```
  {: codeblock}

4. Use the ownership vouchers you received as `<voucher-file>` when you purchased the devices.  The files must have a file type extension of txt, tar, tar.gz, tgz, or zip. If it is any of the tar/zip formats, all .txt files within it will be imported (other files/dirs will be silently ignored).

5. Connect the devices to the network and power them on.

6. Using the `hzn` CLI, monitor the progress of the devices as they come online using `hzn fdo voucher list` to confirm the voucher is listed, and `hzn fdo key list` to see the registered devices.
