docs/demos/open-horizon.md, before:

---
copyright: Contributors to the Open Horizon project
years: 2025
title: Open Horizon demonstration video and code
description: Documentation for Open Horizon demos
lastupdated: 2025-05-03
nav_order: 1
parent: Demonstration videos and code
has_children: False
has_toc: False
---

{:new_window: target="blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:child: .link .ulchildlink}
{:childlinks: .ullinks}

# Open Horizon demos
{: #open_horizon_demos}

## Description

Open Horizon is an extensible solution for automatic and autonomous remote placement decision-making for containerized workloads and related machine learning assets.  

Open Horizon securely negotiates and places these workloads and assets as it is able based on connectivity status and matching properties and constraints.  It includes features like dynamic secrets binding, dynamic runtime dependency resolution, support for major container runtimes, zero-touch edge node provisioning with FIDO Device Onboard, FDO voucher hosting and ownership transfer management, and bi-directional asset synchronization.  All of this is specified by a simple no-code configuration approach based on nodes, services, models, and deployments.  Valid deployment targets include Linux and MacOS operating systems, and the following micro-architectures:

* amd64 (`x86_64`)
* arm32 and arm64, including Mac M1 and M2
* ppc64le
* risc-v
* s390x

## Commercial Adoption

* IBM Edge Application Manager
* Falcon Tactical Edge
* IBM Hybrid Cloud Mesh

Commit message:

Issue: 323 - Replace proper names with Jekyll variable substitutions
- Replaced 100+ instances of proper names (Intel, Fedora, IBM Cloud, Homebrew, Red Hat, OpenShift, macOS, Windows, Linux, Docker) with Jekyll variable substitutions using {{site.data.keyword.KEYNAME}} syntax
- Updated lastupdated dates to 2026-01-30 in all modified files
- Updated copyright years to include 2026 in all modified files
- Fixed YAML front matter parsing error in docs/hub/lfedge_mgmt_hub.md by quoting title and description fields containing Liquid template syntax
- Ensures proper names are not translated during documentation localization
- All changes verified with successful Jekyll build (make build)

Modified 36 files in this repository (excluding external repo files):
- README.md
- Installation guides (docs/installing/)
- Development guides (docs/developing/)
- Hub documentation (docs/hub/)
- Troubleshooting guides (docs/troubleshoot/)
- Getting started guides (docs/getting_started/)
- CLI documentation (docs/cli/)
- User management (docs/user_management/)
- Demos and examples

Note: Changes to docs/anax/, docs/mgmt-hub/, docs/exchange-api/, and docs/fdo/
will be made in their respective source repositories.

Fixes #323

Signed-off-by: Joe Pearson <joe.pearson@us.ibm.com>

docs/demos/open-horizon.md, after:

---
copyright: Contributors to the Open Horizon project
years: 2025 - 2026
title: Open Horizon demonstration video and code
description: Documentation for Open Horizon demos
lastupdated: 2025-05-03
nav_order: 1
parent: Demonstration videos and code
has_children: False
has_toc: False
---

{:new_window: target="blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:child: .link .ulchildlink}
{:childlinks: .ullinks}

# Open Horizon demos
{: #open_horizon_demos}

## Description

Open Horizon is an extensible solution for automatic and autonomous remote placement decision-making for containerized workloads and related machine learning assets.  

Open Horizon securely negotiates and places these workloads and assets as it is able based on connectivity status and matching properties and constraints.  It includes features like dynamic secrets binding, dynamic runtime dependency resolution, support for major container runtimes, zero-touch edge node provisioning with FIDO Device Onboard, FDO voucher hosting and ownership transfer management, and bi-directional asset synchronization.  All of this is specified by a simple no-code configuration approach based on nodes, services, models, and deployments.  Valid deployment targets include {{site.data.keyword.linux}} and {{site.data.keyword.macOS}} operating systems, and the following micro-architectures:

* amd64 (`x86_64`)
* arm32 and arm64, including Mac M1 and M2
* ppc64le
* risc-v
* s390x

## Commercial Adoption

* IBM Edge Application Manager
* Falcon Tactical Edge
* IBM Hybrid Cloud Mesh
