quick-start.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Quick Start"
description: "A guide to get you using Open Horizon in minutes."
---

### Overview

Open Horizon is a middleware solution designed to manage the deployment and service software lifecycle of containerized applications. It also supports an optional separation of concerns between a service and related machine learning assets by providing a separate model sync service.  These solutions enable autonomous management of large fleets of edge compute nodes in various connected states.

To install a simple, developer-friendly version of [all the services on one device](https://github.com/open-horizon/devops/tree/master/mgmt-hub), run the following one-liner as `root` on an x86_64 machine running Ubuntu 18.04:

{% capture code %}curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-horizon/devops/master/mgmt-hub/deploy-mgmt-hub.sh | bash{% endcapture %}
{% include code_snippet.md code=code language='shell' %}

### Common Requests

👩‍💻 How to [install Open Horizon](common-requests/install.md)

💻 How to [use Open Horizon](common-requests/use.md)

💾 How to [contribute to the Open Horizon project](common-requests/contribute.md)

🐞 How to [report an issue to Open Horizon](common-requests/report-an-issue.md)

📚 How to [get support for Open Horizon](common-requests/get-technical-support.md)

### Learn More
From [Open-Horizon Project Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLgohd895XSUddtseFy4HxCqTqqlYfW8Ix) on YouTube.

Commit message:

added dev path page
Signed-off-by: Joe Pearson <joe.pearsonus.ibm.com@joes-mbp.usga.ibm.com>

quick-start.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Quick Start"
description: "A guide to get you using Open Horizon in minutes."
---

### Overview

Open Horizon is a middleware solution designed to manage the deployment and service software lifecycle of containerized applications. It also supports an optional separation of concerns between a service and related machine learning assets by providing a separate model sync service.  These solutions enable autonomous management of large fleets of edge compute nodes in various connected states.

To install a simple, developer-friendly version of [all the services on one device](https://github.com/open-horizon/devops/tree/master/mgmt-hub), run the following one-liner as `root` on an x86_64 machine running Ubuntu 18.04:

{% capture code %}curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-horizon/devops/master/mgmt-hub/deploy-mgmt-hub.sh | bash{% endcapture %}
{% include code_snippet.md code=code language='shell' %}

### Common Requests

👩‍💻 How to [install Open Horizon](common-requests/install.md)

💻 How to [use Open Horizon](common-requests/use.md)

💾 How to [contribute to the Open Horizon project](common-requests/contribute.md)

🐞 How to [report an issue to Open Horizon](common-requests/report-an-issue.md)

📚 How to [get support for Open Horizon](common-requests/get-technical-support.md)

### Learn More

[Developer Learning Path](/docs/getting_started/developer_learning_path.html) page.

From the [Getting Started Overview](/docs/getting_started/overview_oh.html) page.

From [Open-Horizon Project Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLgohd895XSUddtseFy4HxCqTqqlYfW8Ix) on YouTube.
