docs/cli/hzn_cli.md, before:

---

copyright:
years: 2022
lastupdated: "2022-06-14"
title: hzn CLI
description: ""

parent: CLI
nav_order: 1
---

{:new_window: target="blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:child: .link .ulchildlink}
{:childlinks: .ullinks}

# Installing the hzn CLI
{: #using_hzn_cli}

The `hzn` command is the {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} command line interface. When you install the {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} agent software on an edge node, the `hzn` CLI is automatically installed. But you can also install the `hzn` CLI without the agent. For example, an edge administrator might want to query the {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} exchange or an edge developer might want to test with `hzn` commands, without the full agent.

1. Get the **agentInstallFiles-&lt;edge-device-type&gt;.tar.gz** file from your management hub administrator, where **&lt;edge-device-type&gt;** matches the host where you installing `hzn`. They were already created in [Gather the necessary information and files for edge devices](../hub/gather_files.md#prereq_horizon). Copy this file to the host where you are installing **hzn**.

2. Set the file name in an environment variable for subsequent steps:

   ```bash
   export AGENT_TAR_FILE=agentInstallFiles-<edge-device-type>.tar.gz
   ```
   {: codeblock}

3. Extract the `horizon_cli` package from the `agentInstallFiles-<edge-device-type>.tar.gz` tar file:

   ```bash
   tar -zxvf $AGENT_TAR_FILE 'horizon-cli*'
   ```
   {: codeblock}

4. Install the `horizon-cli` package:

   - Confirm that the package version is the same as the device agent listed in [Components](../getting_started/components.md).

   - On a debian-based distro:

     ```bash
     sudo apt update && sudo apt install ./horizon-cli*.deb
     ```
     {: codeblock}

   - On a RPM-based distro:

     ```bash
     sudo yum install ./horizon-cli*.rpm
     ```
     {: codeblock}

   - On {{site.data.keyword.macOS_notm}}:

     ```bash
     sudo security add-trusted-cert -d -r trustRoot -k /Library/Keychains/System.keychain horizon-cli.crt
     sudo installer -pkg horizon-cli-*.pkg -target /
     pkgutil --pkg-info com.github.open-horizon.pkg.horizon-cli   # confirm version installed
     ```
     {: codeblock}

     Note: On {{site.data.keyword.macOS_notm}}, you can also install the horizon-cli pkg file from Finder: Double-click the file to open the installer. If you get an error message that says the program "cannot be opened because it is from an unidentified developer," right-click the file and select **Open**. Click **Open** again when prompted "Are you sure you want to open it?". Then, follow the prompts to install the CLI horizon package, ensuring your ID has administrator privileges.

## Uninstalling the hzn CLI

If you want to remove the `horizon-cli` package from a host:

- Uninstall `horizon-cli` from a debian-based distro:

  ```bash
  sudo apt-get remove horizon-cli
  ```
  {: codeblock}

- Uninstall `horizon-cli` from an RPM-based distro:

  ```bash
  sudo yum remove horizon-cli
  ```
  {: codeblock}

- Or uninstall `horizon-cli` from {{site.data.keyword.macOS_notm}}:

  ```bash
  sudo horizon-cli-uninstall.sh
  ```
  {: codeblock}

Commit message:

Issue 628: Update front matter in documentation files
Signed-off-by: Joe Pearson <joe.pearson@us.ibm.com>

docs/cli/hzn_cli.md, after:

---
copyright: Contributors to the Open Horizon project
years: 2025
title: hzn CLI
description: Documentation for Installing the hzn CLI
lastupdated: 2025-05-03
nav_order: 1
parent: CLI
---

{:new_window: target="blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:child: .link .ulchildlink}
{:childlinks: .ullinks}

# Installing the hzn CLI
{: #using_hzn_cli}

The `hzn` command is the {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} command line interface. When you install the {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} agent software on an edge node, the `hzn` CLI is automatically installed. But you can also install the `hzn` CLI without the agent. For example, an edge administrator might want to query the {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} exchange or an edge developer might want to test with `hzn` commands, without the full agent.

1. Get the **agentInstallFiles-&lt;edge-device-type&gt;.tar.gz** file from your management hub administrator, where **&lt;edge-device-type&gt;** matches the host where you installing `hzn`. They were already created in [Gather the necessary information and files for edge devices](../hub/gather_files.md#prereq_horizon). Copy this file to the host where you are installing **hzn**.

2. Set the file name in an environment variable for subsequent steps:

   ```bash
   export AGENT_TAR_FILE=agentInstallFiles-<edge-device-type>.tar.gz
   ```
   {: codeblock}

3. Extract the `horizon_cli` package from the `agentInstallFiles-<edge-device-type>.tar.gz` tar file:

   ```bash
   tar -zxvf $AGENT_TAR_FILE 'horizon-cli*'
   ```
   {: codeblock}

4. Install the `horizon-cli` package:

   - Confirm that the package version is the same as the device agent listed in [Components](../getting_started/components.md).

   - On a debian-based distro:

     ```bash
     sudo apt update && sudo apt install ./horizon-cli*.deb
     ```
     {: codeblock}

   - On a RPM-based distro:

     ```bash
     sudo yum install ./horizon-cli*.rpm
     ```
     {: codeblock}

   - On {{site.data.keyword.macOS_notm}}:

     ```bash
     sudo security add-trusted-cert -d -r trustRoot -k /Library/Keychains/System.keychain horizon-cli.crt
     sudo installer -pkg horizon-cli-*.pkg -target /
     pkgutil --pkg-info com.github.open-horizon.pkg.horizon-cli   # confirm version installed
     ```
     {: codeblock}

     Note: On {{site.data.keyword.macOS_notm}}, you can also install the horizon-cli pkg file from Finder: Double-click the file to open the installer. If you get an error message that says the program "cannot be opened because it is from an unidentified developer," right-click the file and select **Open**. Click **Open** again when prompted "Are you sure you want to open it?". Then, follow the prompts to install the CLI horizon package, ensuring your ID has administrator privileges.

## Uninstalling the hzn CLI

If you want to remove the `horizon-cli` package from a host:

- Uninstall `horizon-cli` from a debian-based distro:

  ```bash
  sudo apt-get remove horizon-cli
  ```
  {: codeblock}

- Uninstall `horizon-cli` from an RPM-based distro:

  ```bash
  sudo yum remove horizon-cli
  ```
  {: codeblock}

- Or uninstall `horizon-cli` from {{site.data.keyword.macOS_notm}}:

  ```bash
  sudo horizon-cli-uninstall.sh
  ```
  {: codeblock}
