docs/cli/index.md, before:

---

copyright:
years: 2021
lastupdated: "2021-02-20"
title: CLI
description: ""

nav_order: 6
has_children: true
has_toc: false
---

{:new_window: target="blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:child: .link .ulchildlink}
{:childlinks: .ullinks}

# Using the CLI
{: #using_cli}

CLI commands can simplify interactions with Horizon software components. These commands provide more detailed feedback to users, such as to help with troubleshooting.

The hzn CLI command includes an embedded help system. To access help information, append `--help` to any command or partial command. The resulting output includes the contextually appropriate help for that command.

On Horizon edge nodes, use the hzn command to inspect many aspects of the state of the local system and of the larger {{site.data.keyword.edge_notm}} ecosystem outside your edge node. Also, use the `hzn` command to interact with the system and change the state of resources you own.

* [Installing the hzn CLI](hzn_cli.md)
* [Exploring the hzn command](exploring_hzn.md)
* [Installing cloudctl, kubectl, and oc](cloudctl_oc_cli.md)

Commit message:

Issue 628: Update front matter in documentation files
Signed-off-by: Joe Pearson <joe.pearson@us.ibm.com>

docs/cli/index.md, after:

---
copyright: Contributors to the Open Horizon project
years: 2025
title: CLI
description: Documentation for Using the CLI
lastupdated: 2025-05-03
nav_order: 6
has_children: True
has_toc: False
---

{:new_window: target="blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:child: .link .ulchildlink}
{:childlinks: .ullinks}

# Using the CLI
{: #using_cli}

CLI commands can simplify interactions with Horizon software components. These commands provide more detailed feedback to users, such as to help with troubleshooting.

The hzn CLI command includes an embedded help system. To access help information, append `--help` to any command or partial command. The resulting output includes the contextually appropriate help for that command.

On Horizon edge nodes, use the hzn command to inspect many aspects of the state of the local system and of the larger {{site.data.keyword.edge_notm}} ecosystem outside your edge node. Also, use the `hzn` command to interact with the system and change the state of resources you own.

* [Installing the hzn CLI](hzn_cli.md)
* [Exploring the hzn command](exploring_hzn.md)
* [Installing cloudctl, kubectl, and oc](cloudctl_oc_cli.md)
