docs/hub/hub.md, before:

---
copyright:
years: 2021 - 2024
lastupdated: "2024-12-04"
title: "Installing Management hub"

nav_order: 1
parent: Management Hub
has_children: true
has_toc: false
---

{:new_window: target="blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:child: .link .ulchildlink}
{:childlinks: .ullinks}

# Installing the management hub
{: #management_hub}

## Management hub installation overview
Complete the management hub installation and configuration before starting the {{site.data.keyword.edge_notm}} ({{site.data.keyword.ieam}}) node tasks.

* [Configuration](configuration.md)
* [Installation](installation.md)
  * [Install {{site.data.keyword.ieam}}](online_installation.md)
  * [Post-installation](post_install.md)
  * [Gather edge node files](gather_files.md)
* [Management Hub Developer Instance](lfedge_mgmt_hub.md)
* [Uninstall](uninstalling_hub.md)

## Management hub installation flow

![Management hub installation overview](../../images/edge/06_OH_management_hub_install.svg "Management hub installation overview")

## Related information

* [Exchange API information](../installing/exchange_api.md)
* [Installing edge nodes](../installing/installing_edge_nodes.md)

Commit message:

Issue 628: Update front matter in documentation files
Signed-off-by: Joe Pearson <joe.pearson@us.ibm.com>

docs/hub/hub.md, after:

---
copyright: Contributors to the Open Horizon project
years: 2021 - 2025
title: Installing Management hub
description: Documentation for Installing the management hub
lastupdated: 2025-05-03
nav_order: 1
parent: Management Hub
has_children: True
has_toc: False
---

{:new_window: target="blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:child: .link .ulchildlink}
{:childlinks: .ullinks}

# Installing the management hub
{: #management_hub}

## Management hub installation overview
Complete the management hub installation and configuration before starting the {{site.data.keyword.edge_notm}} ({{site.data.keyword.ieam}}) node tasks.

* [Configuration](configuration.md)
* [Installation](installation.md)
  * [Install {{site.data.keyword.ieam}}](online_installation.md)
  * [Post-installation](post_install.md)
  * [Gather edge node files](gather_files.md)
* [Management Hub Developer Instance](lfedge_mgmt_hub.md)
* [Uninstall](uninstalling_hub.md)

## Management hub installation flow

![Management hub installation overview](../../images/edge/06_OH_management_hub_install.svg "Management hub installation overview")

## Related information

* [Exchange API information](../installing/exchange_api.md)
* [Installing edge nodes](../installing/installing_edge_nodes.md)
