docs/using_edge_services/removing_agent_from_cluster.md, before:

---

copyright:
years: 2022 - 2024
lastupdated: "2024-07-29"
title: "Removing the agent from an edge cluster"

parent: Edge clusters
nav_order: 4

---

{:new_window: target="blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:child: .link .ulchildlink}
{:childlinks: .ullinks}

# Removing the agent from an edge cluster
{: #remove_agent}

To unregister an edge cluster and remove the {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} agent from that cluster, perform these steps:

1. Extract the **agent-uninstall.sh** script from the tar file:

   ```bash
   tar -zxvf agentInstallFiles-x86_64-Cluster.tar.gz agent-uninstall.sh
   ```
   {: codeblock}

2. Export your Horizon exchange user credentials:

   ```bash
   export HZN_ORG_ID=<your-exchange-organization>
   export HZN_EXCHANGE_USER_AUTH=<authentication string>
   export HZN_EXCHANGE_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:3090/v1
   export HZN_FSS_CSSURL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:9443/
   export HZN_AGBOT_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:3111
   export HZN_FDO_SVC_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:9008/api
   ```
   {: codeblock}

3. Remove the agent:

   ```bash
   ./agent-uninstall.sh -u $HZN_EXCHANGE_USER_AUTH -d
   ```
   {: codeblock}

Note: Occasionally, deleting the namespace stalls in the "Terminating" state. In this situation, see [A namespace is stuck in the Terminating state ](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSBS6K_3.1.1/troubleshoot/ns_terminating.html){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} to manually delete namespace.

Commit message:

Issue 628: Update front matter in documentation files
Signed-off-by: Joe Pearson <joe.pearson@us.ibm.com>

docs/using_edge_services/removing_agent_from_cluster.md, after:

---
copyright: Contributors to the Open Horizon project
years: 2022 - 2025
title: Removing the agent from an edge cluster
description: Documentation for Removing the agent from an edge cluster
lastupdated: 2025-05-03
nav_order: 4
parent: Edge clusters
---

{:new_window: target="blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:child: .link .ulchildlink}
{:childlinks: .ullinks}

# Removing the agent from an edge cluster
{: #remove_agent}

To unregister an edge cluster and remove the {{site.data.keyword.ieam}} agent from that cluster, perform these steps:

1. Extract the **agent-uninstall.sh** script from the tar file:

   ```bash
   tar -zxvf agentInstallFiles-x86_64-Cluster.tar.gz agent-uninstall.sh
   ```
   {: codeblock}

2. Export your Horizon exchange user credentials:

   ```bash
   export HZN_ORG_ID=<your-exchange-organization>
   export HZN_EXCHANGE_USER_AUTH=<authentication string>
   export HZN_EXCHANGE_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:3090/v1
   export HZN_FSS_CSSURL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:9443/
   export HZN_AGBOT_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:3111
   export HZN_FDO_SVC_URL= # example http://open-horizon.lfedge.iol.unh.edu:9008/api
   ```
   {: codeblock}

3. Remove the agent:

   ```bash
   ./agent-uninstall.sh -u $HZN_EXCHANGE_USER_AUTH -d
   ```
   {: codeblock}

Note: Occasionally, deleting the namespace stalls in the "Terminating" state. In this situation, see [A namespace is stuck in the Terminating state ](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSBS6K_3.1.1/troubleshoot/ns_terminating.html){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} to manually delete namespace.
