docs/admin/troubleshooting.md, before:

---

copyright:
years: 2021
lastupdated: "2021-02-20"
title: Troubleshooting
description: You can use a variety of procedures for diagnosing and fixing problems that you might encounter when using Open Horizon. 
---

{:new_window: target="blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:child: .link .ulchildlink}
{:childlinks: .ullinks}

# Troubleshooting

## {{site.data.keyword.ocp_tm}} documentation

For more information about {{site.data.keyword.open_shift_cp}}, see these resources.

- [{{site.data.keyword.open_shift_cp}} 4.4 Documentation ](https://www.ibm.com/links?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdocs.openshift.com%2Fcontainer-platform%2F4.4%2Fwelcome%2Findex.html){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink}
- [{{site.data.keyword.open_shift_cp}} 4.4 Documentation ](https://www.ibm.com/links?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdocs.openshift.com%2Fcontainer-platform%2F4.4%2Fwelcome%2Findex.html){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink}

## Kubernetes troubleshooting

{{site.data.keyword.ocp_tm}} is a certified Kubernetes distribution, and as such, most of the Kubernetes documentation can be used for your {{site.data.keyword.open_shift}} cluster. See [Kubernetes debugging ](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug/debug-application/debug-pods/){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} for an application debugging guide.

**Note:** The **oc** binary uses many **kubectl** commands in an identical way, but some differences and expanded capabilities do exist. For more information, see [{{site.data.keyword.open_shift}} CLI documentation ](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.5/cli_reference/openshift_cli/usage-oc-kubectl.html){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink}. 

## {{site.data.keyword.edge_notm}} management hub troubleshooting

{{site.data.keyword.ieam}}-specific troubleshooting information is being developed for distribution in the future.

Commit message:

Issue #386: Restructure Table of Contents navigation by Administering links
Signed-off-by: Dipesh Rawat <Dipesh.rawat@ibm.com>

docs/admin/troubleshooting.md, after:

---

copyright:
years: 2021
lastupdated: "2021-02-20"
title: Troubleshooting
description: You can use a variety of procedures for diagnosing and fixing problems that you might encounter when using Open Horizon.

parent: Administering functions
grand_parent: Administering
nav_order: 2
---

{:new_window: target="blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:child: .link .ulchildlink}
{:childlinks: .ullinks}

# Troubleshooting

## {{site.data.keyword.ocp_tm}} documentation

For more information about {{site.data.keyword.open_shift_cp}}, see these resources.

- [{{site.data.keyword.open_shift_cp}} 4.4 Documentation ](https://www.ibm.com/links?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdocs.openshift.com%2Fcontainer-platform%2F4.4%2Fwelcome%2Findex.html){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink}
- [{{site.data.keyword.open_shift_cp}} 4.4 Documentation ](https://www.ibm.com/links?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdocs.openshift.com%2Fcontainer-platform%2F4.4%2Fwelcome%2Findex.html){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink}

## Kubernetes troubleshooting

{{site.data.keyword.ocp_tm}} is a certified Kubernetes distribution, and as such, most of the Kubernetes documentation can be used for your {{site.data.keyword.open_shift}} cluster. See [Kubernetes debugging ](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug/debug-application/debug-pods/){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink} for an application debugging guide.

**Note:** The **oc** binary uses many **kubectl** commands in an identical way, but some differences and expanded capabilities do exist. For more information, see [{{site.data.keyword.open_shift}} CLI documentation ](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.5/cli_reference/openshift_cli/usage-oc-kubectl.html){:target="_blank"}{: .externalLink}. 

## {{site.data.keyword.edge_notm}} management hub troubleshooting

{{site.data.keyword.ieam}}-specific troubleshooting information is being developed for distribution in the future.
